Q3) Imagine you work for amazon, what is the Meta data information you will store for
an item in your Database. For E.g. the item is a shirt, once you have stored the Meta
data how will use the information?

Let’s analyse the meta data of the Electronic devices
In the case of portable devices such as a smartphone, laptop, or camera, the metadata to be stored in the database would consist of a broad array of attributes to capture the essence of a specific item. undefined

Product Name/Model: The type of device or in other words the model number or name of the device which is to be associated with the device’s IMEI.
Brand/Manufacturer: The organization that manufactures it.
Category: This requires identifying the class of the device in consideration such as Smartphone, laptop, camera and others.
Description: An outline of the characteristics of the device with a reference to its key parameters, options, and opportunities.
Color: The readily available color for the device or if comes in multiple colours.
Dimensions and Weight: Determining the physical size and mass of the terminal or any other device used in executing the intended business.
Screen Size/Resolution (for devices with screens) :The size and the density of the dots or pixels on the screen.
Processor/CPU: Details regarding the processor or the heart of the device as it is commonly referred to.
Memory/RAM: The quantity of the memory or the RAM that is accessible inside the device.
Storage: This holds true, especially when it comes to the storage capacity of the device, be it internal storage of smart phones, hard disk or SSD of laptops.
Operating System: The OS, which the device is using, may be Android, iOS, Window, macOS, etc..
Camera Specifications (for devices with cameras): Details of the camera(s) incorporated in the device, including the resolution, lens, and additional characteristics if any.
Battery Capacity/Life: The battery capacity of the device and an expected battery life analysis.
Connectivity: It will also provide details about networking facility like Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, USB jacks, etc.
Ports: Device interfaces including the number and kinds of ports that the device may have like USB-C, HDMI, Headphone jack etc.
Price: This has to do with the cost of the physical device, that is, the cost that the buyer has to part with in order to own it.
Availability: Whether or not there is a stock of the devices with customers.
Reviews and Ratings: An evaluation of what customers had to say and their experience with the device.
Warranty Information: Information regarding whether the device is included in a warranty, as well as the period for which warranty is valid.
Additional Features: There is no functional common format definition for any extra features or functions of the device that are not characterized by other metadata fields.

In what way this type of metadata used to differentiate the products


Search and Filtering: Through parameters such as manufacturer of the device, the kind of device, the name of the device, etc the user can look for the devices he needs.

Product Recommendations: Thus, depending on the customer preference, the recommendations can be different.

Inventory Management: It also assists in controlling inventory since relevant information about the devices that are available is well maintained.

Personalization: Based on the customer’s past browsing and purchase history and specific attributes of the electronic devices they have shown an interest in, targeted recommendations and marketing messages can be created.

Analytics and Insights: From the metadata analysis, insights can be derived from customers’ interest, trends within the market and the various gadgets, which is crucial in decision making and marketing.
